---
title: "SPSS 10.0|Bivariate Statistical Analysis - Crosstabulation"
date: 2023-12-29
author: Zhenting HE
slug: second-post
draft: false
categories:
  - test
tags:
  - SPSS
toc: ture
---
In statistical analysis, it is often necessary to examine the data distribution of multiple variables under different values to gain a deeper understanding of the interactions and relationships between these variables. This analysis is referred to as crosstabulation analysis.

Crosstabulation analysis not only lists the frequency distribution of cross-grouped variables but also assesses whether there is independence or a certain degree of correlation between the two variables. To determine the correlation between variables, relying solely on frequency distribution data is insufficient; statistical measures of correlation between variables and non-parametric testing methods must be used.

A commonly used statistical measure to assess the degree of correlation between variables is the simple correlation coefficient. However, in crosstabulation analysis, the row and column variables are often categorical and not continuous, which does not meet the prerequisites for calculating a simple correlation coefficient. Therefore, depending on the nature of the variables, other correlation coefficients, such as Kendall's rank correlation coefficient or Eta coefficient, are used.

 Crosstabulation Table:
A crosstabulation table is a frequency distribution table for the cross-classification of two categorical variables.  
It is generally conventionally accepted that independent variables are placed in the columns and dependent variables are placed in the rows.

Types of variable relationships in crosstabulation:
- Categorical-Categorical
- Ordinal-Ordinal
- Categorical-Ordinal (Ordinal variables treated as categorical)

Independent Variable: A variable that can change independently of other conditions.  
Dependent Variable: A variable that changes in response to the independent variable.

 Distributions in a Crosstabulation Table:
There are three types of distributions that can be analyzed in a crosstabulation table:

- Joint Distribution: Includes both joint frequency distribution and joint probability distribution.
  
- Marginal Distribution: A simplified version of the joint distribution, focusing on the distribution of just one variable. There are two marginal distributions: one for each of the two variables.
  
- Conditional Distribution: This occurs when one variable in the joint distribution is controlled by fixing its value, and the distribution of the other variable is analyzed. There are \( c + r \) conditional distributions, where \( c \) is the number of categories in the columns and \( r \) is the number of categories in the rows.

This method of analysis helps identify the relationships between different categories of data, illustrating how changes in one variable may affect the other and whether they are dependent or independent. Additionally, it allows for a more detailed exploration of data distribution, ensuring the results can be interpreted effectively and accurately.