---
title: "Memories of Exhibition|My Zodiac Sculpture at the Metropolitan Museum of Art"
date: 2022-11-25
author: Zhenting HE
slug: second-post
draft: false
toc: ture
categories:
  - test
tags:
  - My Exhibition Record
---

I recall the penultimate page of my recently concluded dissertation, wherein I wrote, "It was a novel experience to engage in academic writing, and I found it most agreeable." I would like to express my gratitude to my parents for their unwavering support and affection. I would like to express my gratitude to my teachers and friends for their companionship. I would like to express my gratitude to the instructors for providing me with a wealth of inspiration and ideas. I now turn to the subject of writing. I would like to express my gratitude to all those engaged in academic pursuits. To us, collectively. I would like to express my gratitude to the universe. The act of enforcing rules and cooperating with those that one does not agree with is a stifling and politically depressing process. My academic training illuminated a previously obscure area, akin to the sudden illumination of a dark room. I was fortunate to have a responsive and guiding mentor. It is unclear whether this was a means of evading reality or a genuine interest in academia. However, it is evident that my initial academic training has already had an impact on my career plans.

# Abstract and Keywords
【Abstract】Hou Hsiao-hsien is a significant figure in the contemporary Taiwanese film industry. With regard to character development, following the mid-1990s, the narrative angle in his films underwent a gradual transition from a male perspective to a female perspective, reflecting his concern for women and humanistic issues. This shift is the focus of this article. The research method employed is text analysis, which is used to sort out the 19 films he directed and divide the female image created into two categories: women in the family and women in society. On this basis, the interpretation and refinement are carried out, and the contrast and analogy analysis are used to consider the similarities and differences of female images in shaping characters and character shaping under the mapping of female images. Through the study of Hou Hsiao-hsien's female images, from the perspective of film research, it is convenient to further understand Hou Hsiao-hsien's way of constructing female characters, paying attention to the growth of personal creation and the shaping of characters in the film. An investigation of this subject matter enables an examination of gender relations within the context of a complex power structure, facilitated by the medium of film. Additionally, it provides an opportunity to assess the actual living conditions of women in a way that considers the influence of gender.\
【Keywords】Film; Gender; Image of Women; Hou Hsiao-hsien

# Introduction
## Background of the Study
One of the fundamental aspects of artistic creation is characterisation. Hou Hsiao-hsien, a director with a background in screenwriting, possesses a more personalised understanding of film and characterisation. As a prominent director in Taiwan, China (hereafter referred to as 'Taiwan'), Hou Hsiao-hsien has crafted a diverse array of female characters over his four-decade career. He asserts that these characters possess a vitality that surpasses the narrative constraints of any given story.

In the mid-to-late 1990s, Hou Hsiao-hsien shifted from his early representation of men to that of women, creating a number of films with women as the main point of view. Syd Field posited that the evolution of characters is not a phenomenon occurring in a vacuum. Rather, he regarded such changes as a product of the cultural situation, comparing the environment and background to an empty coffee cup, which is then filled up with details of the specific story and characters surrounding the space (Field, 2005). In his oeuvre, Hou Hsiao-hsien strives to faithfully capture the tangible shifts that occur within the context of an individual's life. His portrayal of characters is similarly grounded in their authentic, real-life personas. The construction of women's roles in his works across different periods is closely related to the historical changes experienced by the wider society. This personal experience not only reflects his concern and thinking about women, but also provides a more comprehensive representation of Taiwan's modern changes from a female perspective.

In 2020, Lisa French posited that gender issues are pivotal in empowering women to enhance their strategic acumen, with the ultimate goal of facilitating women's ascension to positions of influence within major industries (French, 2020). As indicated by the National Bureau of Statistics (2021), the 'Main Data Situation of the Seventh National Census', women constitute 48.76% of the total population ratio (National Bureau of Statistics, 2022). Nevertheless, it is evident that in comparison to the overall population, women are underrepresented in positions of authority and influence within social structures. The concept of gender reflects contemporary social issues, individual thinking and collective perception, and is therefore a multifaceted and dynamic construct. Over the past decade, there has been a notable shift in the composition of women in the film and television industry, with ongoing attention being paid to gender issues (Dooley, 2021). The film industry serves as a reflection of societal norms and can act as a conduit for influencing perceptions of gender issues. It demonstrates the prevailing gender power structures, wherein men are often depicted as the dominant gender. While some female characters in the film are depicted as strong and independent, they do not challenge the apparent gendered power structures. The concept of power is inherently dynamic, as is the notion of power in gender relations. An analysis of Hou Hsiao-hsien's films reveals a shifting portrayal of women, which can be understood in relation to changing responses to patriarchal ideologies. These responses encompass a range of attitudes and behaviours, including dependence, submission, indifference, resistance, and other forms of engagement with or critique of patriarchal structures.

As previously stated, Hou Hsiao-hsien exhibits a pronounced degree of cultural awareness and a profound concern for the human condition in his portrayal of women and characters. One is compelled to inquire as to the nature of the women depicted in Hou Hsiao-hsien's cinematic works. What is the nature of his portrayal of female characters? Furthermore, what cultural connotations do they reflect? Nevertheless, the existing research lacks analyses of the image of women in his works. Accordingly, this study will examine the portrayal of women in Hou Hsiao-hsien's films as its primary subject, with a particular focus on Hou's stylistic approach to depicting female characters and the cultural implications of this representation.

## Significance of the Study

In light of the three points that form the backdrop to this topic, The article's focus on the significance of character creation, the cultural connection of the social era, and the importance of researching from a gender perspective aligns with Hou Hsiao-hsien's value of character creation, the cultural connection of the social era, and the importance of researching from a gender perspective, respectively.

(1) From the perspective of characterisation: Hou Hsiao-hsien, regarded as one of the most significant figures in contemporary cinema, has developed a distinctive approach to characterisation. By observing and analysing Hou Hsiao-hsien's approach to characterisation, we can gain a deeper understanding of his creative style, which also serves as a valuable reference point for the creation of literary films.

(2) From the perspective of gender, the theoretical significance is of primary importance. The three fundamental concepts of the humanities are class, gender and race. The issue of women has been the subject of considerable attention in recent years in the fields of news communication research and sociological research. The film medium constitutes an important component of mass communication. The portrayal of women in film has also attracted the attention of researchers, thereby enriching related research in the field of film/gender. This, in turn, enhances the comprehensiveness and three-dimensionality of the aforementioned research. Secondly, there is the practical dimension. The analysis and cultural interpretation of the female image in Hou Hsiao-hsien's films can facilitate an exploration of Hou's approach to constructing the female subject and female consciousness, while respecting the individual life. This is of particular significance for uncovering and examining the significance and value of women's actual existence within the deeply entrenched power structure.

(3) From the perspective of the social era: Hou Hsiao-Hsien's documentary-style artistic approach enables him to portray female characters in a way that is not only imbued with female significance in his film texts, but also situated within a knowable and palpable historical context. This allows for an exploration of the darker aspects and social dilemmas faced by women and people more broadly. This collective video memory can be used as a valuable resource for understanding the overall change and pulse of society, as well as the evolving role of women in Taiwan and East Asia. This valuable collective video memory offers insights into the broader changes and dynamics of society, as well as the evolving roles of women in Taiwan and East Asia.

## Research Status
Synthesising previous literature, this paper finds that studies related to the chosen topic focus on two main areas: a review of research on the image of women in film and television and a review of research on Hou Hsiao-hsien's films.
### Research on Female Image in Film and Television

#### Analysing the Image of Women in Film and Television from a Gender Perspective

#### Analysing Female Film and Television Images on Screen from a Semiotic Perspective
### Review of Hou Hsiao-hsien's Film Studies
## Research Methodology and Framework
### Research Method
### Research Framework

【 p.s. Parts II and III constitute the 'analysing the problem' and 'parsing the problem' sections of the paper, respectively. They are not included here, given the uncertainty surrounding the possibility of further publication. Should anyone wish to discuss this further, I would be happy to correspond with them privately.】

# The Image of Women in Hou Hsiao-hsien's Films
## The Basis for Classifying Female Characters and Description of Sample Selection
## Analysis of Typical Female Roles in Hou Hsiao-hsien's Films
### The Family Image of Women in the Films
### Social Image of Women in the Films

# Analysis of Female Image in Hou Hsiao-hsien's Films
## Vision and Characters: Women in the Film
### Performance of Appearance
### Representation of Clothing
### Focus of the Eyes
### Presentation of the Body
## Role and Gender: Women in the Director's Perspective
### Comparative Analysis of Women's Image in Director's Creation
### The Director's Personal Creative Experience
## Women and Humanity: Humanity in Female Creation
### Character Relationships of Women in Cinema
### Analysis of Character Meanings from the Perspective of Gender

# Findings

In the analytical section of the article, this paper takes the 19 films directed by Hou Hsiao-Hsien as the subject of analysis and interprets the principal female images in them as the research subjects. In the discussion section of the In this article, we conduct a further analysis of the female template presented in the films and the women as seen through the director's perspective. This is based on desk research and extends to social relationships and human nature in combination with the image of women in film and television. The four main findings are summarised below.

First and foremost, Hou Hsiao-hsien's audacious examination of the principal female characters and female consciousness in his cinematic oeuvre offers a significant contribution. In his films, Hou Hsiao-hsien presents a relatively diversified image of women. Furthermore, he depicts some women who have attained a degree of subjectivity and autonomy, despite their initial passive and subordinate position. In particular, women are depicted in family relationships as wives and lovers who do not conform to the traditional 'good wife' archetype. Instead, they are portrayed as struggling and imprisoned, as well as mothers who embody traditional tender and loving characteristics, those who are absent, and those who are undergoing a process of transitioning to modernity. Additionally, as daughters, there are those who have not rebelled against patriarchal structures and those who are determined to pursue their own autonomy. In their role as daughters, some women have been unable to resist the influence of patriarchy, while others have been more successful in pursuing their own individual paths. In terms of social relationships, there are women whose ideologies are more constrained due to their professions, while there are also women who have become aware of their own agency as a result of their professions. Hou Hsiao-hsien presents a diverse array of female characters in his films, exhibiting a range of similarities and differences. Over the course of his career, which has spanned more than four decades, Hou Hsiao-hsien has directed 19 films and participated in the creation of 126 additional film and television productions. Hou Hsiao-hsien has played a significant role in the Taiwanese film industry and wider Taiwanese society. The portrayal of women in Hou Hsiao-hsien's films enables an examination of the manner in which the image of women is presented and constructed within the context of a film. When we arrive at the time and space where the characters are located, and then withdraw from them, we can find that Hou Hsiao-Hsien is shaping the women in the corresponding environments in the context of the times, and that he is showing the process of awakening of women's consciousness. The transformation of Taiwan's society is precisely the kind of transformation that allows for the simultaneous existence of old and new female consciousness.

Secondly, an analysis of the presentation of the main female characters in Hou Hsiao-Hsien's films, coupled with an investigation of his creative rules and his sense of femininity, reveals Hou Hsiao-Hsien's misgivings about the fate of women. In Hou's films, there is a pronounced emphasis on masculinity in the initial stages, which then gives way to a shift in creative focus towards female characters in the subsequent stages. Following this shift in perspective, it would be inaccurate to suggest that he has undergone a complete transformation, moving from his original style to create films that are explicitly focused on women and feminist themes. This does not align with the reality of his creative process. Nevertheless, as evidenced by the aforementioned case study, it is evident that Hou Hsiao-hsien has endeavoured to emancipate women from the constraints of tradition and social gender roles. However, this endeavour is not as optimistic as one might assume, due to the combined impact of various general circumstances and the director's personal creativity. Indeed, few women ultimately succeed. Hou Hsiao-hsien did not provide a definitive answer regarding Nala's subsequent fate. As a prominent director in Taiwan and a globally renowned figure in the film industry, this remains the case. It is therefore possible to hypothesise about the future work of other directors.

Thirdly, film can be considered a reflection of reality, but it can also be viewed as a potential predictor of future developments. When we consider the films of Hou Hsiao-hsien beyond the context of gender, it becomes evident that they are based on the fundamental attribute of the 'human being' to explore the destiny of individuals in different times. This approach can be seen as embodying a kind of humanism. It is precisely because of this value judgement criterion that we can analyse a kind of sad but warm gender position and gender consciousness in his films. An analysis of the portrayal of women in Hou Hsiao-hsien's films can facilitate a deeper comprehension of the challenges and advancements faced by women in the contemporary era. The female characters in Hou's films who have developed a sense of female consciousness are depicted as constantly navigating a complex interplay between their personal desires and the traditional norms of their society. Furthermore, the joys and contradictions inherent to familial life, as well as the courage and struggles evident in social life, as reflected in the films, serve as a mirror for us to gain insight into the contemporary women. They allow us to perceive and further comprehend the confusion that women encounter in reality. In the real world, women are expected to realise their self-worth. At the same time, they are subjected to significant social pressures, including the pressure to obtain higher educational qualifications and to compete in the workplace. Conversely, women are subject to traditional concepts and are expected to fulfil the roles of both the family's protagonist and the male assistant. Consequently, women are subjected to dual pressures and responsibilities from both societal and familial sources. In comparison to their traditional counterparts, modern women have attained a superior economic and social standing. However, the burden of pressure and social responsibility they bear is more significant than that experienced by their predecessors.

Finally, feminism has never been a battlefield for women. The growth of women requires not only self-respect and self-love, but also the pursuit of independence, equality and freedom by women themselves. At the same time, men, including those who grow up with them, should also treat women with a sense of equality and respect for women. What is important between men and women is mutual respect and independence and equality of personality. This kind of respect and equality is not simply confrontation or harmony, but mutual understanding and respect reached through disputes, discussions and exchanges. It involves every existing individual, and expresses the rejection of power, the refutation of discrimination, and the resistance to prejudice, and the struggle against the absolute, monolithic, and one-sided understanding of our society. It is not only women who need to be rescued, it is every individual who is persecuted by the patriarchy. This foundational civilisation requires every modern person with ‘presence’ to look directly, introspect and rethink, to go beyond simple gender essentialism and gender constructivism, to transcend gender dichotomies, and to shape a more peaceful relationship between genders and society.

# References
